- `.` : *(Dot.) In the default mode, this matches any character except a newline. If the DOTALL flag has been specified, this matches any character including a newline.*
- `^` : *(Caret.) Matches the start of the string, and in MULTILINE mode also matches immediately after each newline.*
- `\$` : *Matches the end of the string or just before the newline at the end of the string, and in MULTILINE mode also matches before a newline. foo matches both ‘foo’ and ‘foobar’, while the regular expression foo\$ matches only ‘foo’. More interestingly, searching for foo.\$ in 'foo1\nfoo2\n' matches ‘foo2’ normally, but ‘foo1’ in MULTILINE mode; searching for a single \$ in 'foo\n' will find two (empty) matches: one just before the newline, and one at the end of the string.*
- `\*` : *Causes the resulting RE to match 0 or more repetitions of the preceding RE, as many repetitions as are possible. ab\* will match ‘a’, ‘ab’, or ‘a’ followed by any number of ‘b’s.*
- `+` : *Causes the resulting RE to match 1 or more repetitions of the preceding RE. ab+ will match ‘a’ followed by any non-zero number of ‘b’s; it will not match just ‘a’.*
- `?` : *Causes the resulting RE to match 0 or 1 repetitions of the preceding RE. ab? will match either ‘a’ or ‘ab’.*
- `\*?, +?, ??` : *The '\*', '+', and '?' quantifiers are all greedy; they match as much text as possible. Sometimes this behaviour isn’t desired; if the RE \<.\*\> is matched against '\<a\> b \<c\>', it will match the entire string, and not just '\<a\>'. Adding ? after the quantifier makes it perform the match in non-greedy or minimal fashion; as few characters as possible will be matched. Using the RE \<.\*?\> will match only '\<a\>'.*
- `\*+, ++, ?+` : *Like the '\*', '+', and '?' quantifiers, those where '+' is appended also match as many times as possible. However, unlike the true greedy quantifiers, these do not allow back-tracking when the expression following it fails to match. These are known as possessive quantifiers. For example, a\*a will match 'aaaa' because the a\* will match all 4 'a's, but, when the final 'a' is encountered, the expression is backtracked so that in the end the a\* ends up matching 3 'a's total, and the fourth 'a' is matched by the final 'a'. However, when a\*+a is used to match 'aaaa', the a\*+ will match all 4 'a', but when the final 'a' fails to find any more characters to match, the expression cannot be backtracked and will thus fail to match. x\*+, x++ and x?+ are equivalent to (?\>x\*), (?\>x+) and (?\>x?) correspondingly. Added in version 3.11.*
- `{m}` : *Specifies that exactly m copies of the previous RE should be matched; fewer matches cause the entire RE not to match. For example, a{6} will match exactly six 'a' characters, but not five.*
- `\` : *Either escapes special characters (permitting you to match characters like '\*', '?', and so forth), or signals a special sequence; special sequences are discussed below. If you’re not using a raw string to express the pattern, remember that Python also uses the backslash as an escape sequence in string literals; if the escape sequence isn’t recognized by Python’s parser, the backslash and subsequent character are included in the resulting string. However, if Python would recognize the resulting sequence, the backslash should be repeated twice. This is complicated and hard to understand, so it’s highly recommended that you use raw strings for all but the simplest expressions.*
- `[]` : *Used to indicate a set of characters. In a set: Characters can be listed individually, e.g. [amk] will match 'a', 'm', or 'k'. Ranges of characters can be indicated by giving two characters and separating them by a '-', for example [a-z] will match any lowercase ASCII letter, [0-5][0-9] will match all the two-digits numbers from 00 to 59, and [0-9A-Fa-f] will match any hexadecimal digit. If - is escaped (e.g. [a\-z]) or if it’s placed as the first or last character (e.g. [-a] or [a-]), it will match a literal '-'. Special characters lose their special meaning inside sets. For example, [(+\*)] will match any of the literal characters '(', '+', '\*', or ')'. Character classes such as \w or \S (defined below) are also accepted inside a set, although the characters they match depend on the flags used. Characters that are not within a range can be matched by complementing the set. If the first character of the set is '^', all the characters that are not in the set will be matched. For example, [^5] will match any character except '5', and [^^] will match any character except '^'. ^ has no special meaning if it’s not the first character in the set. To match a literal ']' inside a set, precede it with a backslash, or place it at the beginning of the set. For example, both [()[\]{}] and []()[{}] will match a right bracket, as well as left bracket, braces, and parentheses. Support of nested sets and set operations as in Unicode Technical Standard #18 might be added in the future. This would change the syntax, so to facilitate this change a FutureWarning will be raised in ambiguous cases for the time being. That includes sets starting with a literal '[' or containing literal character sequences '--', '&&', '~~', and '||'. To avoid a warning escape them with a backslash. Changed in version 3.7: FutureWarning is raised if a character set contains constructs that will change semantically in the future.*
- `|` : *A|B, where A and B can be arbitrary REs, creates a regular expression that will match either A or B. An arbitrary number of REs can be separated by the '|' in this way. This can be used inside groups (see below) as well. As the target string is scanned, REs separated by '|' are tried from left to right. When one pattern completely matches, that branch is accepted. This means that once A matches, B will not be tested further, even if it would produce a longer overall match. In other words, the '|' operator is never greedy. To match a literal '|', use \|, or enclose it inside a character class, as in [|].*
- `(...)` : *Matches whatever regular expression is inside the parentheses, and indicates the start and end of a group; the contents of a group can be retrieved after a match has been performed, and can be matched later in the string with the \number special sequence, described below. To match the literals '(' or ')', use \( or \), or enclose them inside a character class: [(], [)].*
- `(?...)` : *This is an extension notation (a '?' following a '(' is not meaningful otherwise). The first character after the '?' determines what the meaning and further syntax of the construct is. Extensions usually do not create a new group; (?P\<name\>...) is the only exception to this rule. Following are the currently supported extensions.*
- `(?:...)` : *A non-capturing version of regular parentheses. Matches whatever regular expression is inside the parentheses, but the substring matched by the group cannot be retrieved after performing a match or referenced later in the pattern.*
- `(?P\<name\>...)` : *Similar to regular parentheses, but the substring matched by the group is accessible via the symbolic group name name. Group names must be valid Python identifiers, and in bytes patterns they can only contain bytes in the ASCII range. Each group name must be defined only once within a regular expression. A symbolic group is also a numbered group, just as if the group were not named. Named groups can be referenced in three contexts. If the pattern is (?P\<quote\>['"]).\*?(?P=quote) (i.e. matching a string quoted with either single or double quotes): Context of reference to group “quote” Ways to reference it in the same pattern itself (?P=quote) (as shown) \1 when processing match object m m.group('quote') m.end('quote') (etc.) in a string passed to the repl argument of re.sub() \g\<quote\> \g\<1\> \1 Changed in version 3.12: In bytes patterns, group name can only contain bytes in the ASCII range (b'\x00'-b'\x7f').*
- `(?P=name)` : *A backreference to a named group; it matches whatever text was matched by the earlier group named name.*
- `(?#...)` : *A comment; the contents of the parentheses are simply ignored.*
- `(?=...)` : *Matches if ... matches next, but doesn’t consume any of the string. This is called a lookahead assertion. For example, Isaac (?=Asimov) will match 'Isaac ' only if it’s followed by 'Asimov'.*
- `(?!...)` : *Matches if ... doesn’t match next. This is a negative lookahead assertion. For example, Isaac (?!Asimov) will match 'Isaac ' only if it’s not followed by 'Asimov'.*
- `(?\<=...)` : *Matches if the current position in the string is preceded by a match for ... that ends at the current position. This is called a positive lookbehind assertion. (?\<=abc)def will find a match in 'abcdef', since the lookbehind will back up 3 characters and check if the contained pattern matches. The contained pattern must only match strings of some fixed length, meaning that abc or a|b are allowed, but a\* and a{3,4} are not. Note that patterns which start with positive lookbehind assertions will not match at the beginning of the string being searched; you will most likely want to use the search() function rather than the match() function: \>\>\> import re \>\>\> m = re.search('(?\<=abc)def', 'abcdef') \>\>\> m.group(0) 'def' This example looks for a word following a hyphen: \>\>\> m = re.search(r'(?\<=-)\w+', 'spam-egg') \>\>\> m.group(0) 'egg' Changed in version 3.5: Added support for group references of fixed length.*
- `(?\<!...)` : *Matches if the current position in the string is not preceded by a match for .... This is called a negative lookbehind assertion. Similar to positive lookbehind assertions, the contained pattern must only match strings of some fixed length. Patterns which start with negative lookbehind assertions may match at the beginning of the string being searched.*
- `(?(id/name)yes-pattern|no-pattern)` : *Will try to match with yes-pattern if the group with given id or name exists, and with no-pattern if it doesn’t. no-pattern is optional and can be omitted. For example, (\<)?(\w+@\w+(?:\.\w+)+)(?(1)\>|\$) is a poor email matching pattern, which will match with '<user@host.com>' as well as 'user@host.com', but not with '\<user@host.com' nor 'user@host.com\>'. Changed in version 3.12: Group id can only contain ASCII digits. In bytes patterns, group name can only contain bytes in the ASCII range (b'\x00'-b'\x7f').*
- `\number` : *Matches the contents of the group of the same number. Groups are numbered starting from 1. For example, (.+) \1 matches 'the the' or '55 55', but not 'thethe' (note the space after the group). This special sequence can only be used to match one of the first 99 groups. If the first digit of number is 0, or number is 3 octal digits long, it will not be interpreted as a group match, but as the character with octal value number. Inside the '[' and ']' of a character class, all numeric escapes are treated as characters.*
- `\A` : *Matches only at the start of the string.*
- `\b` : *Matches the empty string, but only at the beginning or end of a word. A word is defined as a sequence of word characters. Note that formally, \b is defined as the boundary between a \w and a \W character (or vice versa), or between \w and the beginning or end of the string. This means that r'\bat\b' matches 'at', 'at.', '(at)', and 'as at ay' but not 'attempt' or 'atlas'. The default word characters in Unicode (str) patterns are Unicode alphanumerics and the underscore, but this can be changed by using the ASCII flag. Word boundaries are determined by the current locale if the LOCALE flag is used. Note Inside a character range, \b represents the backspace character, for compatibility with Python’s string literals.*
- `\B` : *Matches the empty string, but only when it is not at the beginning or end of a word. This means that r'at\B' matches 'athens', 'atom', 'attorney', but not 'at', 'at.', or 'at!'. \B is the opposite of \b, so word characters in Unicode (str) patterns are Unicode alphanumerics or the underscore, although this can be changed by using the ASCII flag. Word boundaries are determined by the current locale if the LOCALE flag is used.*
- `\d` : *For Unicode (str) patterns:Matches any Unicode decimal digit (that is, any character in Unicode character category [Nd]). This includes [0-9], and also many other digit characters. Matches [0-9] if the ASCII flag is used. For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:Matches any decimal digit in the ASCII character set; this is equivalent to [0-9].*
- `For Unicode (str) patterns:` : *Matches any Unicode decimal digit (that is, any character in Unicode character category [Nd]). This includes [0-9], and also many other digit characters. Matches [0-9] if the ASCII flag is used.*
- `\D` : *Matches any character which is not a decimal digit. This is the opposite of \d. Matches [^0-9] if the ASCII flag is used.*
- `\s` : *For Unicode (str) patterns:Matches Unicode whitespace characters (which includes [ \t\n\r\f\v], and also many other characters, for example the non-breaking spaces mandated by typography rules in many languages). Matches [ \t\n\r\f\v] if the ASCII flag is used. For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:Matches characters considered whitespace in the ASCII character set; this is equivalent to [ \t\n\r\f\v].*
- `For Unicode (str) patterns:` : *Matches Unicode whitespace characters (which includes [ \t\n\r\f\v], and also many other characters, for example the non-breaking spaces mandated by typography rules in many languages). Matches [ \t\n\r\f\v] if the ASCII flag is used.*
- `\S` : *Matches any character which is not a whitespace character. This is the opposite of \s. Matches [^ \t\n\r\f\v] if the ASCII flag is used.*
- `\w` : *For Unicode (str) patterns:Matches Unicode word characters; this includes all Unicode alphanumeric characters (as defined by str.isalnum()), as well as the underscore (_). Matches [a-zA-Z0-9_] if the ASCII flag is used. For 8-bit (bytes) patterns:Matches characters considered alphanumeric in the ASCII character set; this is equivalent to [a-zA-Z0-9_]. If the LOCALE flag is used, matches characters considered alphanumeric in the current locale and the underscore.*
- `For Unicode (str) patterns:` : *Matches Unicode word characters; this includes all Unicode alphanumeric characters (as defined by str.isalnum()), as well as the underscore (_). Matches [a-zA-Z0-9_] if the ASCII flag is used.*
- `\W` : *Matches any character which is not a word character. This is the opposite of \w. By default, matches non-underscore (_) characters for which str.isalnum() returns False. Matches [^a-zA-Z0-9_] if the ASCII flag is used. If the LOCALE flag is used, matches characters which are neither alphanumeric in the current locale nor the underscore.*
- `\Z` : *Matches only at the end of the string.*
